slides.md, before:

class: center, middle

### **Welcome to**
## **Neurohackweek 2017**
### The Summer Institute for Neuroimaging and Data Science

<small>Follow along at: <a href="https://neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw">neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw</small>

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

## README

- These slides: https://neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw
- [A neurohackweek user's guide](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017/blob/gh-pages/README.md)

---

## What is this thing?

<div style="position: absolute; left: 100px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/creative-brain.jpg" height=200px>
<br>
(thanks to twitter user @hardmaru)
</div>

5 day workshop ...

--

... conference ...

--

... summer school ...

--

... hackathon ...


---

## Neuroimaging and Data Science

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

--

Tools and practices for:

--

### Open

--

### Reproducible

--

### Data-intensive

--

## Neuroscience

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

### Data science

What's that?

--

<image src="images/Data_Science_VD.png" height=300px>

(Drew Conway, 2013)

Attributed to Jeff Hammerbacher and DJ Patil (LinkedIn, circa 2008)

---

<a href="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/915c/d8e2b39eb02723553913d592b2237d4d9960.pdf"><image src="images/cleveland.png" height=300px></a>

--

- Multidisciplinary investigations (25%)
- Models and methods for data (20%)
- Computing with data (15%)
- Pedagogy (15%)
- Tool evalutation (5%)
- Theory (20%)

---

<image src="images/fourth-paradigm.png" height=300px>

--

<image src="images/norvig.png" height=300px>

---

### For example

<image src="images/vanhorn-toga-2014.png" height=400px>
<p><small>Van Horn and Toga (2014)</small></p>

---

### Data science in academia

<image src="images/DSE-and-sponsors.png" height=200px>

#### <a href="http://msdse.org/">Moore-Sloan Data Science Environments</a>

--

<image src="images/eScience_Logo_PMS.png" height=150px>

---

### This week

- Tutorials today
- Lectures in the mornings
- Hackathon in the afternoons
- Breakout sessions in the afternoons
- More hackathon in the evenings
- Other activities ... up to you!

[Schedule](https://neurohackweek.github.io/nhw2017/#schedule)

[Really Detailed schedule](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017#schedule)

---

### Course faculty

* [Bing Brunton](http://faculty.washington.edu/bbrunton/) (University of Washington)
* [Nicholas Cain](https://alleninstitute.org/what-we-do/brain-science/about/team/staff-profiles/nicholas-cain) (Allen Institute for Brain Sciences)
* [Satra Ghosh](http://satra.cogitatum.org/) (MIT)
* [Chris Gorgolewski](https://plus.google.com/+ChrisFiloGorgolewski/about) (Stanford University)
* [Bernease Herman](http://escience.washington.edu/people/bernease-herman/) (UW eScience)
* [Anisha Keshavan](http://www.github.com/akeshavan/) (University of Washington)
* [Tara Madhyastha](http://ibic.washington.edu/madhyastha) (University of Washington)
* [Jeanette Mumford](http://mumford.fmripower.org/) (University of Wisconsin, Madison)
* [Dylan Nielson](https://ngsp.osu.edu/people/dylan.nielson) (NIMH)
* [Russ Poldrack](https://poldracklab.stanford.edu/) Stanford University
* [JB Poline](https://neurohackweek.github.io/) (McGill University / MNI)
* [Ariel Rokem](http://arokem.org) (UW eScience)
* [Valentina Staneva](http://escience.washington.edu/people/valentina-staneva/) (UW eScience)
* [Jake Vanderplas](http://staff.washington.edu/jakevdp/) (UW eScience)
* [Tal Yarkoni](https://talyarkoni.org) (University of Texas at Austin)

---

### Interaction and collaboration are not optional!

Much of the week depends on collaborating with other participants and with the instructors.

--

If you need some peace and quiet, duck into one of the side rooms in the Data Scnience Studio, but if you are in the main space, be up for a conversation!

--

(important caveat: eScience people)

---

### Our code of conduct

We are committed to providing a harassment-free environment to all participants.

To ensure this, we expect standards of [conduct](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017/blob/gh-pages/README.md#code-of-conduct).

Certain behaviors are not acceptable and will not be tolerated.

---
layout: false

### Today's schedule

| Time | Room 1 (DSS SR) | Room 2 (DSS MR) |
|:------------- |:-------:|:-------:|
| 10 - noon | Russ Poldrack: Reproducibility in fMRI: What is the problem?
| noon - 1 PM | **Lunch** | -- |
| 1 - 2 PM | Unix shell (VS) | Best practices in SC (CG) |
| 2 - 3 PM | Unix shell (VS) | Best practices in SC (CG) |
| 3 - 4 PM | git/Github (BH))| Visualization with D3 (AK)|
| 4 - 5 PM | git/Github (BH) | Jupyter (DN)|
| 5 - 6 PM | Python  (TY)| R (JM) |
| 6 - 7 PM | Python  (TY)| R (JM) |

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

### Software setup

Maybe you already [installed](https://neurohackweek.github.io/nhw2017/setup/) everything?

--

If something doesn't work for you, log into our Jupyterhub:

[https://neurohackweek.github.io/Jupyterhub](https://neurohackweek.github.io/Jupyterhub)

---


### Now some of you might be thinking

--

- "I don't belong here"

--

- "I am not a great programmer at all"

--

- "I don't know enough about neuroscience yet to make a new contribution"

--

- "When they figure out, they probably won't want to work with me"

--

### The imposter syndrome is real

--

### But we're all here to learn!

---

# Thanks!

We're grateful for support for SINDS through a grant from the NIMH

<image src="images/nimh-logo.png" height=50px>

And to the Moore/Sloan Foundations for supporting eScience

We are also grateful to the [Jupyter](http://jupyter.org) team for their collaboration in setting up our Jupyterhub (shoutout to @choldgraf and @yuvipanda)

---

# Questions?

--

# Let's introduce ourselves

Name, where from, one thing you know/enjoy, one thing you'd like to learn more about.

--

"I am Ariel Rokem; I am a data scientist at the University of Washington, in Seattle; I enjoy analyzing diffusion MRI data; I am interested in learning more about Javascript"

Commit message:

Some small changes to schedule. Add chris h.

slides.md, after:

class: center, middle

### **Welcome to**
## **Neurohackweek 2017**
### The Summer Institute for Neuroimaging and Data Science

<small>Follow along at: <a href="https://neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw">neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw</small>

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

## README

- These slides: https://neurohackweek.github.io/introduction-to-nhw
- [A neurohackweek user's guide](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017/blob/gh-pages/README.md)

---

## What is this thing?

<div style="position: absolute; left: 100px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/creative-brain.jpg" height=200px>
<br>
(thanks to twitter user @hardmaru)
</div>

5 day workshop ...

--

... conference ...

--

... summer school ...

--

... hackathon ...


---

## Neuroimaging and Data Science

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

--

Tools and practices for:

--

### Open

--

### Reproducible

--

### Data-intensive

--

## Neuroscience

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

### Data science

What's that?

--

<image src="images/Data_Science_VD.png" height=300px>

(Drew Conway, 2013)

Attributed to Jeff Hammerbacher and DJ Patil (LinkedIn, circa 2008)

---

<a href="https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/915c/d8e2b39eb02723553913d592b2237d4d9960.pdf"><image src="images/cleveland.png" height=300px></a>

--

- Multidisciplinary investigations (25%)
- Models and methods for data (20%)
- Computing with data (15%)
- Pedagogy (15%)
- Tool evalutation (5%)
- Theory (20%)

---

<image src="images/fourth-paradigm.png" height=300px>

--

<image src="images/norvig.png" height=300px>

---

### For example

<image src="images/vanhorn-toga-2014.png" height=400px>
<p><small>Van Horn and Toga (2014)</small></p>

---

### Data science in academia

<image src="images/DSE-and-sponsors.png" height=200px>

#### <a href="http://msdse.org/">Moore-Sloan Data Science Environments</a>

--

<image src="images/eScience_Logo_PMS.png" height=150px>

---

### This week

- Tutorials today
- Lectures in the mornings
- Hackathon in the afternoons
- Breakout sessions in the afternoons
- More hackathon in the evenings
- Other activities ... up to you!

[Schedule](https://neurohackweek.github.io/nhw2017/#schedule)

[Really Detailed schedule](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017#schedule)

---

### Course faculty

* [Bing Brunton](http://faculty.washington.edu/bbrunton/) (University of Washington)
* [Nicholas Cain](https://alleninstitute.org/what-we-do/brain-science/about/team/staff-profiles/nicholas-cain) (Allen Institute for Brain Sciences)
* [Satra Ghosh](http://satra.cogitatum.org/) (MIT)
* [Chris Gorgolewski](https://plus.google.com/+ChrisFiloGorgolewski/about) (Stanford University)
* [Chris Holdgraf](http://predictablynoisy.com/) (UC Berkeley)
* [Bernease Herman](http://escience.washington.edu/people/bernease-herman/) (UW eScience)
* [Anisha Keshavan](http://www.github.com/akeshavan/) (University of Washington)
* [Tara Madhyastha](http://ibic.washington.edu/madhyastha) (University of Washington)
* [Jeanette Mumford](http://mumford.fmripower.org/) (University of Wisconsin, Madison)
* [Dylan Nielson](https://ngsp.osu.edu/people/dylan.nielson) (NIMH)
* [Russ Poldrack](https://poldracklab.stanford.edu/) Stanford University
* [JB Poline](https://neurohackweek.github.io/) (McGill University / MNI)
* [Ariel Rokem](http://arokem.org) (UW eScience)
* [Valentina Staneva](http://escience.washington.edu/people/valentina-staneva/) (UW eScience)
* [Jake Vanderplas](http://staff.washington.edu/jakevdp/) (UW eScience)
* [Tal Yarkoni](https://talyarkoni.org) (University of Texas at Austin)

---

### Interaction and collaboration are not optional!

Much of the week depends on collaborating with other participants and with the instructors.

--

If you need some peace and quiet, duck into one of the side rooms in the Data Scnience Studio, but if you are in the main space, be up for a conversation!

--

(important caveat: eScience people)

---

### Our code of conduct

We are committed to providing a harassment-free environment to all participants.

To ensure this, we expect standards of [conduct](https://github.com/neurohackweek/nhw2017/blob/gh-pages/README.md#code-of-conduct).

Certain behaviors are not acceptable and will not be tolerated.

---
layout: false

### Today's schedule

After this: coffee break

10 - 12  Russ Poldrack: Reproducibility in fMRI: What is the problem?

| Time | Room 1 (DSS SR) | Room 2 (DSS MR) |
|:------------- |:-------:|:-------:|
| 12 - 1 | **Lunch** | -- |
| 1 - 2 | Unix shell 1 (Valentina) | Best practices in scientific computing: Software containers/Docker (CG) |
| 2 - 3 | Unix shell 1 (Valentina) | Best practices in scientific computing: Software testing (CG)|
| 3 - 4 | git/Github (BH))| Visualization with D3 (AK)|
| 4 - 5 | git/Github (BH) | Jupyter (DN)|
| 5 - 6 | Python  (TY)| R (JM) |
| 6 - 7 | Python  (TY)| R (JM) |

---

layout: true

<div style="position: absolute; left: 650px; top: 370px;">
<image src="images/escience-network.png" width=500px style="opacity:0.4;filter:alpha(opacity=40);"> </div>

---

### Software setup

Maybe you already [installed](https://neurohackweek.github.io/nhw2017/setup/) everything?

--

If something doesn't work for you, log into our Jupyterhub:

[https://neurohackweek.github.io/Jupyterhub](https://neurohackweek.github.io/Jupyterhub)

---


### Now some of you might be thinking

--

- "I don't belong here"

--

- "I am not a great programmer at all"

--

- "I don't know enough about neuroscience yet to make a new contribution"

--

- "When they figure out, they probably won't want to work with me"

--

### The imposter syndrome is real

--

### But we're all here to learn!

---

# Thanks!

We're grateful for support for SINDS through a grant from the NIMH

<image src="images/nimh-logo.png" height=50px>

And to the Moore/Sloan Foundations for supporting eScience

We are also grateful to the [Jupyter](http://jupyter.org) team for their collaboration in setting up our Jupyterhub (shoutout to @choldgraf and @yuvipanda)

---

# Questions?

--

# Let's introduce ourselves

Name, where from, one thing you know/enjoy, one thing you'd like to learn more about.

--

"I am Ariel Rokem; I am a data scientist at the University of Washington, in Seattle; I enjoy analyzing diffusion MRI data; I am interested in learning more about Javascript"
